# Electron Cash Android app

## Release

The Android app can be built on any OS which can run the Android development tools. However,
the following automated process is available for Linux x86-64:

If necessary, install Docker using the [instructions on its
website](https://docs.docker.com/install/#supported-platforms).

Copy your release key to `keystore.jks` in this directory. It must contain a key with the
following configuration:

    keyAlias "key0"
    keyPassword "android"
    storePassword "android"

Run `build.sh`. The APK will be generated in `release` in this directory.

Between builds it may be helpful to free up disk space with the command `docker system prune`.

## Development

To start developing the app, just open this directory in Android Studio.

### Strings

For user interface text, the app uses the standard Android string resource system. The
`strings.xml` files are generated by the Gradle task `generateStrings`, which in turn calls the
script `contrib/make_locale` to obtain strings from elsewhere in the repository and Crowdin.

Android-specific strings should be added to
`app/src/main/python/electroncash_gui/android/strings.py`.

`generateStrings` is run automatically the first time you build the app, and whenever you edit
`strings.py`. If you need to pick up new strings from any of the other source files, run the
task `regenerateStrings`.

The Android string IDs are generated from the first 2 words of each string, plus as many more
words as necessary to make them unique. So if any of the source strings change, you may need to
update ID references in the code.
